hey guys what's up I'm back on my 98 TDI
Jetta or also known as MK 3 just clicked
half a million miles and it's got a
problem with the shifter it uh does not
as hard time putting up putting the
going into first gear actually goes into
first gear but actually goes into third
gear and set up third gear so I'm going
to show you how to fix this
actually there's no reason for me to
take this out well as you guys can see
how it is inside right now there's no
play but before we head plague forward
hopes forward it goes forward and back
you could see these bushings right here
and all the car is filthy
I never took this out just cover anyways
see that bushing that Bush is worn out
and is also bushing here as well so as
that gets worn out it has hard time
putting the going into first gear which
will be right here you see how it goes
and easy before every time put it in
first not every time about 50% of the
time I put it on first to actually go
into third and I put a mighty burst and
we'll go into first so there's nothing
that I can really do here now I said
order the bushings but I'll show you
away how you can fix this if you only
have this much play you should be fine
play I mean here not here because he I
had a lot more play show you how to fix
this from under the hood
all right this is your shifter shifting
mechanism right here see sure
first I'll find out which gear that is
but anyways I'll show you a little
closer
which part gets worn out okay
you can see this right here
see that's Kapolei that's not good
it also has play left to right passenger
to driver
it also has play back and forth the
bushing here is a little bit worn out
but mainly it's worn out right here this
plastic piece plastic piece slides you
don't want to go let's see there we go
you see there's a plastic right here
this plastic had to be has to be placed
but to fix that this bolt right here you
loosen this bolt with a half-inch wrench
or socket before you do that make sure
you take a picture or remember where
this is at okay you can get that any
closer but if you take a look what I did
is I loosen the bolt
hey this is clockwise that go
counterclockwise open the bolt and pull
this lever which is this whole thing
forward so pull this forward so in other
words the boat what this bracket will go
back you want to have a little bit gap
right here you can see how much I went
approximately is 16 and that's 16 you
can see I don't have too much play
anymore before I had a lot of play back
and forth right now it's pretty snug and
then you don't forget to tighten this up
once you move this forward or this back
when you move this back the bolt moves
back to tying this and go for a test
drive and that should fix your first
gear or having hard time putting it in
reverse reverse he actually goes into
first gear because that pieces weren't
out I don't know we can get that piece
yet I didn't look into it so far I
I just moved that Brack a little bit and
they seem to fix the problem I don't net
that's pretty much it